Again, this might be simple for
a lot of users, but
yeah, maybe for some user,
may be new, the whole idea.
So what's wrong right now?
Well, I'm writing
the password in plain text,
okay, which is not a good idea.
Makes sense?
So if I write a user, then the password
will be actually available
in my JSON file.
I can see that, I'm the backend owner,
I can see all the passwords.
So it doesn't look nice.
Okay, can we hash it?
Remember the hash operation means it's
typically one-way method to encrypt
the data, that if you have the hash,
you cannot go back to the password.
But as we mentioned before,
that's not 100% true.
Mostly, when we are hashing
passwords created by the user,
that may be similar to
other users' passwords.
And then there are databases of hashes
out there that can actually get,
not 100% of the passwords but
a lot of them, okay?
So to hash the password,
so let's change that.
So instead of password,
we're going to write the hash password,
Okay, that we need to
create somehow first.
So for that, we are going to use another
library that is already in the dependency,
and it's already imported here,
it's ready to use, okay?
It's called bcrypt.
It's an npm, it's open source, it's all
the dependencies we are going to use.
So to import this, we actually need,
first, something known as a salt.
I am not going to be so
deep into the security part on this.
So we're going to generate the salt
synchronously with 10 rounds.
And you say, okay, what's that?
This has to do with random numbers and
seeds.
I'm not sure if you have ever
been in that area, okay,
of computer programming,
or how random works.
It's kind of how the random
is been generated.
Don't worry, we just create the salt.
And with the salt,
we can actually create that hash password.
And it's basically talking to bcrypt.
We're going to say hashSync
because this one is asynchronous.
Why I'm not using the asynchronous API,
I could, but
you simplify a little bit the code,
I'm using the sync API.
So we don't need to deal with
responses in the async world.
HTTP response with the async
world are not so simple, okay?
So many way, just to make
the code cleaner to understand.
So we're going to take the password
that is coming from the body and
the salt that we have just created,
and that's going to give us a string.
It's a text, so the result is a text, not
an array buffer or something like that.
It's a text, and that's what we're
going to save in the database.
So if someone is hacking my server and
getting the database, so
he or she will get not the password
as plain text, but as a hash.
It's better.
It's not 100% secure, but
better than not having a hash.
That means that now,
you cannot see the password,
you cannot send the password by email.
If you have a recover password,
now it's more a reset password, Okay?
Make sense?
And that's for now, despite the TODO for
Data Validation that we're not doing,
the rest, I think, it's fine.
And just because we are here,
we can also create the endpoint for login.
So it's also a post, and
the route will be auth/login.
Request response is always the same thing.
I'm old school, so
you will see I'm using the semicolons
[LAUGH] all the time, is in my brain.
So unless I'm writing Swift or
Kotlin, where it's not mandatory,
yeah, in shell script,
I tend to use semicolon.
So if you don't like them,
that's okay, you can remove them.
At least on Node.js, on client side,
it might be a problem when you're using,
it depends on the library that
you're using to compress your code.
Okay, anyway, just a quick tip.
Well, for the login, so what we need to
first check is if the user exists, okay?
So let's see if we have a userFound.
And we can call the same findUser
library that we did before,
taking from the body the email, okay?
And if the user is found,
we should check credentials,
so check the password, okay?
So User Found, we check the password.
But before, I wanna see, or
I wanna discuss with you what
to do if the user is not found.
What do you think?
What should we do?
Yeah, the user does not exist
with that email address, okay?
So of course, we are going to send
a message saying, we're going to respond.
It can be with a sendStatus with an error,
okay, with a code number,
or it can be just as we did with register,
ok, false.
But what about the error message?
Should we say the account doesn't exist?
Check your email or something,
Check your email address.
That was actually pretty common for
a while, okay?
But today, it's a bad idea.
Why?
I mean, if you have that, it's okay.
I mean, it's okay,
it's not the worst of the problems.
But the problem is that a hacker that is
trying to attack your database can now
try a list of email addresses to see
which one has an account with you first.
Okay, so
it can filter his list of email addresses,
because now you're telling him who
has an account with you, okay?
So it's better to just say
that credentials are wrong or
some generic message that you will return,
also is the password is wrong.
So then whoever is calling your API will
not know if, credentials are wrong, but
they don't know if it's because the email
is wrong or because the password is wrong.
So the email is okay, he has an account,
that email has an account, but
the password is wrong.
So credentials are wrong or whatever.
And that's the generic message,
and that's a better idea, okay?
Again, if you have it, it's okay.
But if you don't provide that information,
okay, you are removing a percentage of,
we are reducing the risk a little bit.
And reducing risk is always
mother of making a lot of things.
And you'll reduce here a little bit
another here, another here, another here.
Okay, we are trying to reduce
the risk of our data to be breached.
Okay, and if the user is found,
well, what do you need to do?
We just check the password.
Should we compare?
So we have the userFound.password.
Should we compare like this the password
that is coming from the form,
from the login form?
What do you think about this?
We have a problem,
is that our store password is hashed.
>> So I don't have the original
password to just compare as a strings.
Makes sense?
So this is the password
that the user has typed.
So it's the password, but
this one is hash because we saved
here at the bottom a hashed password.
So comparison will always
be false at this point.
So to solve the problem, what we're going
to do is we're going to call another
function for bcrypt, for
our library, that's called compare.
So we are going to compare synchronously.
We pass first.
First, we need to pass
the password without the hash,
and then the hashed password.
So we need to reverse
the order of what I wrote.
So it's userFound.password.
First, the one that is not hashed, and as
a second argument, the one that is hashed.
And if they are okay,
it will give me a true.
So now I will respond with ok: true.
So the login was successful.
And if not, again,
I will use the same error message
as when the user was not found.
So then an attacker will never
know what happened, okay?
And a login API typically also need to
respond with the current user, okay?
With the data, like the name,
the email, because typically,
the user interface, the client
typically needs to render your name.
Hello, Max.
Okay, so typically,
we pass here some data.
I can pass the name from the userFound and
the email.
Public data only, don't send the hash
password, or don't send the whole object.
I've seen that a lot, big,
big security problem that a developer is
taking the object from the database and
sending the object to the client.
And now, sometimes it will contain
private data, your private ID.
And maybe in the future,
you add more APIs or more things to that,
you attach more things to that object.
And now,
the client will get that information.
So no, don't do that, okay?
So that's our code for
login and registering.
The last part that we need
is to connect the client.
So we go to the public > scripts > API.js,
yes.
>> Why are you sending the password value
for the email property in the response?
>> Let me see.
>> Line 43.
>> The email, this one?
Yeah, why?
Because it's wrong.
So thank you for that,
is not the password.
That happens typically
when you're teaching,
because you're saying
something about something, and
your brain is typing at the same time,
and sometimes, yeah, you mess up.
So thank you for that.
Is the email, not the password.
So now, in the API, what I need to do
is here add the API client side part.
So for example,
I will have a login function.
If you don't like to use this syntax,
use wherever syntax you want.
I'm using a syntax, I'm using a code that
I know will work on every browser without
transpiling this code,
without passing this through Babel, okay?
So I don't have any build
process in my client-side code,
so I'm just writing code that I know
will work on every browser these days.
So I'm creating an async function.
And the idea will be to call
the makePostRequest, okay?
And because this is async as well,
I'm going to await.
So I'm going to return awaiting for
API makePostRequest.
The endpoint is just a prefix that you
might change later in case you move this
to a different server,
or something like that.
So I will take the endpoint, and
I will concatenate the login name.
And that's the data, okay?
I'm going to send the user
that I receive as an argument.
So I receive a user as an argument,
that's an object that I will
populate with the form.
And I'm sending that through post, okay?
And something similar
is actually register.
So I receive also a user object.
And it's going to be pretty much the same
thing, but changing the endpoint.
Making a post request to
endpoint plus register,
and then I pass this user as an argument.
For now, we have only these two endpoints.
I know that for some, well,
this way of coding seems a little scary
because it seems like blind coding, right?
Because we haven't tested anything,
and it's like, ooh,
we are writing out of code and
we haven't seen it, and it is working.
Well, we'll see later.